feat: Editorial review: Add content covering modern approach to vertical form controls (#32142)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/element/input/range/index.md

The default stepping value for `range` inputs is 1, allowing only integers to be entered, _unless_ the stepping base is not an integer; for example, if you set `min` to -10 and `value` to 1.5, then a `step` of 1 will allow only values such as 1.5, 2.5, 3.5,… in the positive direction and -0.5, -1.5, -2.5,… in the negative direction. See the [HTML `step` attribute](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/step).

> ## Non-standard Attributes

Reviewer: do not delete this section

Author: ok, added back.

By default, browsers render range inputs as sliders with the knob sliding left and right.

> To create a vertical range wherein the knob slides up and down, you can set the {{cssxref("writing-mode")}} property to a value of `vertical-rl` or `vertical-lr`, as explained in [Creating vertical form controls](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_writing_modes/Vertical_controls). You can also set the CSS {{cssxref('appearance')}} property to `slider-vertical` if you want to support older versions of Chrome and Safari, and include the non-standard `orient="vertical"` attribute to support older versions of Firefox.

Author: In my next commit, I've mentioned that it is non-standard, but I've kept the description that it says it is for older versions, because I think it is still accurate — yes, it is still supported, but the new `writing-mode` stuff isn't, therefore it is the way you'd do it for older versions. I think this makes sense. People who want to know the exact details of what is supported where can look at the compat data tables.

> To create a vertical range wherein the knob slides up and down, you can set the {{cssxref("writing-mode")}} property to a value of `vertical-rl` or `vertical-lr`, as explained in [Creating vertical form controls](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_writing_modes/Vertical_controls). You can also set the CSS {{cssxref('appearance')}} property to the non-standard `slider-vertical` value if you want to support older versions of Chrome and Safari, and include the non-standard `orient="vertical"` attribute to support older versions of Firefox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a vertical range wherein the thumb slides up and down, set the {{cssxref("writing-mode")}} property with a value of either `vertical-rl` or `vertical-lr`. 

To provide a fallback for non-supporting browsers, set the CSS {{cssxref('appearance')}} property to the non-standard `slider-vertical` value for older versions of Chrome and Safari, and include the non-standard `orient="vertical"` attribute to support older versions of Firefox. To learn more, see [Creating vertical form controls](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_writing_modes/Vertical_controls).
```
Then include examples to show top to bottom and bottom to top with `vertical-rl` or `vertical-lr` and the fallback example.

Author: I've made this change and adjusted things around a bit. I'm not adding in another example as we link to the "Creating vertical form controls" page for examples.

By default, browsers render range inputs as sliders with the knob sliding left and right.

> To create a vertical range wherein the thumb slides up and down, set the {{cssxref("writing-mode")}} property with a value of either `vertical-rl` or `vertical-lr`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a vertical range wherein the thumb slides up and down, set the {{cssxref("writing-mode")}} property with a value of either `vertical-rl` or `vertical-lr`.

```html-hidden
<input type="range" min="0" max="10" value="8">
```end

```css
input[type="range"] {
   writing-mode: vertical-lr;
}
```end

{{EmbedLiveSample("Creating vertical range controls", 200, 200)}}

```

Reviewer: this section is in "examples". Include a simple example and they can go to the link in the next sentence to learn more. Actually seeing a vertical range in the page will get people to click to the guide. :D
